.Dd $MDocdate$
.Dt b58 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm b58
.Nd encode a number as base 58
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl n
.Op INPUT
.Op BINDATA ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
encodes its input in base 58 and writes the result to standard
output, followed by a newline.  If the
.Ar INPUT
argument is given, it may be given as a decimal, 
or as hexadecimal with prefix 0x.
IF no
.Ar INPUT
argument is present, 
.Nm
reads from its standard input.  In this case the format of the
input is raw binary data by default.
.Pp
The default base58 encoding is the Bitcoin encoding, but others
may be selected as described in OPTIONS.  The bitcoin encoding
isn't purely a base58 encoding, since leading zeroes are encoded
with each full zero byte encoded as a single "1".  This does mean
that the Bitcoin scheme is fully reversible, even in cases where the
input is a binary string starting with null bytes.  The Bitcoin
alphabet for the base58 part is
"123456789ABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyz".
.Pp
Options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Flickr-style encoding.  This uses an alphabet of 
"123456789abcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZ"
and is a function of the numeric value of the input, which means
that in the case of the input being a binary string, multiple
inputs can produce the same output due to leading zeroes.
.It Fl b , -bytes
Treat the input as a string of bytes, even if the input data is provided
in the arguments.  In this case, additional binary data may be
given as the extra arguments
.Ar BINDATA ... .
The input byte string is then all of
.Ar INPUT
and
.Ar BINDATA ...
joined with null bytes.
.It Fl n , -numeric
Treat the input as a number (decimal or hexadecimal, as described above),
even if the input data is provided on standard input.  In this case,
the data fed to standard input is allowed to contain a single newline
at the end.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std b58
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
On most systems, process arguments are visible to other users.  So if
you're processing confidential data, feed
.Nm
its input on its standard input, rather than via its argument list.
.Sh INTERFACE VERSION
This version of
.Xr b58 1
is part of version 0.1 of b58-interface.
